Our scripture texts is Matthew 10, 16.
We invite you to open to Matthew chapter 10.
We'll take a look at our text in the context.
Now, if you notice in the first few verses,
the 12 apostles are listed, but look at verse five.
These 12 Jesus sent out giving them these instructions.
And the instructions, as you'll see,
it included that initially just go to the house of Israel.
If you look at verse seven, it says,
preach the kingdom of the heavens.
Verse eight says,
cure people, raise some dead ones, expel demons.
And then if you look at verse nine and 10,
it tells them to how their ministry's gonna be financed,
primarily by contributions.
And then verse 11 through 14,
he tells them about their territory.
He alludes to the door to door, house to housework,
how to follow up on interest, how to handle rejection.
But now we come to verse 16,
and it's a continuation of this meeting for service.
And now Jesus tells them something
that might be a little more intimidating
when they think about their upcoming role.
And so let's read verse 16 and its entirety.
Look, I'm sending you out as sheep among wolves.
So prove yourselves cautious as serpents,
yet innocent as does.
So that was Jesus' introduction
to the following circumstances.
Look at verse 17.
You'll be handed over to courts and scourged.
18 brought before governors and kings for being Christians.
Well, that was a lot for the apostles to absorb.
And we can just imagine them looking each other nervously,
maybe some anxiety playing over their face.
His followers, though,
came to understand what Jesus meant in verse 16.
He used four different animal types.
He said, I'm sending you out as sheep among wolves.
Well, they would have immediately understood that illustration.
That was used in the Hebrew scriptures.
Psalm 100 verse three says,
we are his people, the sheep of his pastry, they understood.
And they would have understood the analogy of wolves.
They knew wolves were vicious predators on sheep,
so they got the picture.
We're not going to be well received by awe.
It was Jesus' way of warning them of potential trouble.
Well, what about this other analogy of serpents and doves?
You know, being described as a snake
was not complimentary back then, nor is it today.
So, why did Jesus say that?
You know, probably the reason why it's not complimentary
is the original serpents reputation
when he wreaked havoc on the human race.
But our text says, be like serpents in what way.
Remember, Genesis described the serpent
as the most cautious of all the animals Jehovah had made.
That natural characteristic
is which Jesus was highlighting for his followers.
They were to be cautious in the ministry
particularly when facing opposition.
Well, our snakes really cautious.
You know, many of us don't even like to look at a snake,
let alone carefully study its personality characteristics.
So, I'm going to quote a British zoologist.
He said that even when attacking an enemy,
a serpent is cautious.
He tries to make sure that his strike
is going to be accurate and deadly.
And so, the zoologist said,
often they'll make several lunges toward the enemy
and yet they fall short on purpose.
And sometimes when they make their lunges,
they don't even open their mouth.
Why?
Because it's just practicing, it's being cautious.
And the same zoologist said that oftentimes at this point,
you can see the snake sometimes carefully uncoiling himself
of being ready for a hasty departure
if the enemy's too aggressive in return.
The snake is being cautious.
And remember, Jesus was involved in the creation
of the serpent, so he would have well known
this cautious nature.
And that's what he said his followers
should try to include in their personality
is exercising cautious,
particularly when facing wolf-like opposition.
Well, how did Jesus balance that characteristic
by including the dove in the illustration?
Well, if we were all serpent and no dove,
then much of the warmth of sharing the good news would be lost.
So Jesus included the dove.
And what's the natural characteristic of the dove?
Well, a dove is so soft, gentling appearance,
it has an appealing disposition.
In fact, the dove is so gentle and appealing
that it has actually earned the description
of being the sheep of the bird wool world.
So what an appropriate way for Jehovah to describe
this other aspect of his followers.
But what's the downside of being all,
lovey-dovey, no serpent?
Insight says,
does are quite trusting of humans
and are rather easily entrapped or snared with a net.
So Jesus added this equation,
be cautious as serpents.
So in this way, our gentle Christian personality
will not be taken advantage of.
We will not easily be trapped or ensnared.
When we brought you to turn to Mark chapter 12,
now we know that Jesus had dove like qualities.
He was gentle, he was kind, he was compassionate.
But was he cautious as a serpent?
Well, if you look at Mark 12,
the last sentence in verse 14,
is it lawful to pay head tax to Caesar or not?
Well, these proud Jewish religious Pharisees,
they were trying to trap Jesus,
get in to say something against Roman nationalism.
Well, the direct answer to that question
from an innocent dove would be,
yes, it's proper to pay taxes to Rome.
But that would have been a volatile response
as far as the Pharisees were concerned.
So notice how Jesus used caution,
cautious as a serpent, verses 15 to 17,
the Pharisees asked, should we pay or should we not pay?
Well, detecting their hypocrisy, he said to them,
why do you put me to the test?
Bring me a denarius to look at.
They brought him one and he said to them,
whose image and inscription is this?
They said to him, Caesars,
Jesus then said, pay back Caesar's things to Caesar,
but God's things to God, and they were amazed at him.
They were amazed at him.
Now, if he had innocently said, yes,
pay the Romans the tax, they would have been infuriated,
not amazed.
Jesus defused the situation by using caution.
Or what are some situations we might face
to be prudent, exercise caution?
Well, what is our conversations?
We need to avoid either praising or criticizing
the policy of a political party or leader.
I'll follow in Jesus' example.
The comments are Romans 13.
We are to be respectful of superior authority,
even if it's dishonest, corrupt, inept.
At one brother, I won't say which country he's from,
but he recently told me he said the greatest challenge
to my neutrality is not saying something negative
about the current government.
I think we understand.
Well, this is also true when speaking to refugees.
Many countries have thousands of refugees
pouring into their land because of opposition
from some regime, ethnic attacks.
And these ones likely are seething in pain
and they want to talk about, besmirch the regime
that's pushed them out of the country.
So how can we share the good news like a dove
and yet be cautious as serpents?
Well, we need to be patient like a dove,
listen to the refugee and they will likely
tell some of their horrors,
but now we need to be cautious as a serpent
by avoid getting involved in a discussion
of the political elements involved.
Instead, follow the directions of the branch office,
share the good news in such a way
so as not to put yourself or others at risk.
And when talking to refugees,
it's good to exercise caution
when it comes to our clothing, jewelry, and our grooming,
so that we're not offensive to their culture.
For example, in Myanmar, if a woman's clothing reveals,
exposes her shoulder, that's viewed as quite offensive.
So when we're talking to refugees,
we need to be mindful of customs like that.
Well, how about the media?
Is there a need to be cautious as serpents?
Well, you know, in some lands,
they have state-controlled news reports
that are blatantly slanted.
And sometimes your hope as witnesses
are slandered or ridiculous charges
are trumped up against them.
A dove could be ensnared by these reports,
start to tremble, but because of this council
from Jesus to also be cautious as serpents,
then we're not easily duped.
And how about, even in a free country,
what about the news media in a free country?
Christians need to be careful not to adopt
the bias of a particular news commentator.
And instead of getting involved
in the political leanings of that news broadcast,
we should remember the words of Paul
at 2 Timothy 1-13.
2 Timothy 1-13, he said,
keep holding to the standard of wholesome words,
with the faith and love that result from union with Christ Jesus.
So in harmony with our text today,
if we're in union with Christ Jesus,
then we need to prove ourselves cautious as serpents,
but innocent as doves.